README.md, before:

# Filesystem

This project contains code for the Filesystem abstraction layer.

# API

## Initializes filesystem
`void fs_init(int f, int partition, fs_driver_t *driver);`

## Starts filesystem thread
`void fs_start();`

## Opens the file specified by path
`fs_fd fs_open(int f, char *path, uint32_t flags);`

## Attempts to read up to count bytes from file descriptor fd into the buffer starting at buf
`int32_t fs_read(int f, fs_fd fd, void *buf, int32_t count);`

## Writes up to count bytes from the buffer starting at buf
`int32_t fs_write(int f, fs_fd fd, const void *buf, int32_t count);`

## Flushes cached writes to flash.
`void fs_flush(int f, fs_fd fd);`

## Closes the file descriptor
`void fs_close(int f, fs_fd fd);`

## Deletes a name from the filesystem
`void fs_unlink(int f, char *path);`

## Repositions the file offset of the open file descriptor
`int32_t fs_lseek(int f, fs_fd fd, int32_t offs, int whence);`

## Return information about a file
`int32_t fs_fstat(int f, fs_fd fd, fs_stat *s);`

## Write one data record to the file
`int32_t fs_write_record (int file_sys_nr, const char * p_file_name, const void * p_value, int32_t len, fs_rw_done_f callback_func, uint32_t wait)`

## Read one data record from the file
`int32_t fs_read_record (int file_sys_nr, const char * p_file_name, void * p_value, int32_t len, fs_rw_done_f callback_func, uint32_t wait)`

# Dependencies / submodules

Thinnect LowLevelLogging (submodule, MIT license)
Thinnect node-platform & buildsystem components.
SPIFFS (SPI Flash File System) https://github.com/pellepl/spiffs

# Example

See the [example](example) directory.

Commit message:

FS_MAX_COUNT and FS_MAX_DESCRIPTORS configurable, defaults to 1 and 6.

README.md, after:

# Filesystem

This project contains code for the Filesystem abstraction layer.

# API

## Initializes filesystem
`void fs_init(int f, int partition, fs_driver_t *driver);`

## Starts filesystem thread
`void fs_start();`

## Opens the file specified by path
`fs_fd fs_open(int f, char *path, uint32_t flags);`

## Attempts to read up to count bytes from file descriptor fd into the buffer starting at buf
`int32_t fs_read(int f, fs_fd fd, void *buf, int32_t count);`

## Writes up to count bytes from the buffer starting at buf
`int32_t fs_write(int f, fs_fd fd, const void *buf, int32_t count);`

## Flushes cached writes to flash.
`void fs_flush(int f, fs_fd fd);`

## Closes the file descriptor
`void fs_close(int f, fs_fd fd);`

## Deletes a name from the filesystem
`void fs_unlink(int f, char *path);`

## Repositions the file offset of the open file descriptor
`int32_t fs_lseek(int f, fs_fd fd, int32_t offs, int whence);`

## Return information about a file
`int32_t fs_fstat(int f, fs_fd fd, fs_stat *s);`

## Write one data record to the file
`int32_t fs_write_record (int file_sys_nr, const char * p_file_name, const void * p_value, int32_t len, fs_rw_done_f callback_func, uint32_t wait)`

## Read one data record from the file
`int32_t fs_read_record (int file_sys_nr, const char * p_file_name, void * p_value, int32_t len, fs_rw_done_f callback_func, uint32_t wait)`

# Configuration

**FS_MAX_COUNT** - Number of supported filesystems, defaults to 1, but more can
be supported, for example to have a backup filesystem with critical system settings.

**FS_MAX_DESCRIPTORS** - Number of files that can be open at the same time,
defaults to 6. Should be slightly larger than the actual number of files you
intend to keep open or spontaneously access from multiple threads, as the
descriptors may not become immediately available for re-use.

# Dependencies / submodules

Thinnect LowLevelLogging (submodule, MIT license)
Thinnect node-platform & buildsystem components.
SPIFFS (SPI Flash File System) https://github.com/pellepl/spiffs

# Example

See the [example](example) directory.
